content/about.md, before:

+++
title = "About Me"
+++

# Welcome to Jorge Sepulveda's Site

Howdy!

I'm Jorge Sepulveda and I'm currently a SysAdmin for BXG systems, a control systems integrator in the Oil and Gas industry. I also do work on PLC's with Ladder Logic and HMI development for Rockwell's FactoryTalk products.

Previously, I worked at American Express as a backend developer contributing and maintaining the payment network, all the magic that happens while swiping your card at stores. I lead development for support of the UK payments for my specific microservice in the architecture. 

I have a B.A in Computing from Texas A&M University with a specialization in Geographic Information Systems(GIS). To summarize that, I'm a big nerd who likes maps. 

Quick Links:
- {{<link href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jorgesepulveda/">}}LinkedIn{{</link>}}
- {{<link href="https://github.com/jorge-sepulveda">}}Github{{</link>}}
- [Portfolio](./portfolio.md)
- [Blog](./posts/)
- [Dev Blog](./tags/dev)
- [Sysadmin Blog](./tags/sysadmin)
- {{<link href="/index.xml">}}XML Feed{{</link>}}

Commit message:

added resume and fixed typo

content/about.md, after:

+++
title = "About Me"
+++

# Welcome to Jorge Sepulveda's Site

Howdy!

I'm Jorge Sepulveda and I'm currently a SysAdmin for BXG systems, a control systems integrator in the Oil and Gas industry. I also do work on PLC's with Ladder Logic and HMI development for Rockwell's FactoryTalk products.

Previously, I worked at American Express as a backend developer contributing and maintaining the payment network, all the magic that happens while swiping your card at stores. I lead development for support of the UK payments for my specific microservice in the architecture. I worked with SRE to troubleshoot application logs and spent numerous hours with data engineers to ensure our models we're scalable and fitting all of the different regional markets' use cases.

Before that, I was working at Texas A&M University's Geography department using Python and SQL to develop an automated testing CI/CD Pipeline for the geocoding service. The geocoding service was a massive moneymaker for the Geography department so I had a chance to make it more robust. 

I have a B.A in Computing from Texas A&M University with a specialization in Geographic Information Systems(GIS). To summarize that, I'm a big nerd who likes maps. 

Resume:
- {{<link href="/assets/jsepulveda_Dec2024.pdf">}}PDF{{</link>}}

Quick Links:
- {{<link href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jorgesepulveda/">}}LinkedIn{{</link>}}
- {{<link href="https://github.com/jorge-sepulveda">}}Github{{</link>}}
- [Portfolio](./portfolio.md)
- [Blog](./posts/)
- [Dev Blog](./tags/dev)
- [Sysadmin Blog](./tags/sysadmin)
- {{<link href="/index.xml">}}XML Feed{{</link>}}
